they called me a Madman it'll leak it'll
break it's heresy not heresy
science through the power of 3D scanning
and printing at long last we've done it
a Hardline watercooled gaming PC with
impossible tubing bins and all it took
was some really cool technology a bit of
modeling and patience let's start with
the first one this thing is so freaking
cool the Ein scan Pro 2x V2 from shining
3D is a multi-functional handheld 3D
scanner that is exactly what it sounds
like this can be used to create a
digital representation of small and
medium-sized objects just like our
computer here after calibrating it
against their handy dandy calibration
board it works by shining a white LED
pattern onto an object then registering
any deformations of that pattern through
the attached camera of course because
our computer is black and even worse
kind of reflective it uh no works so
good out of the box fortunately fixing
that is as simple as picking up a can of
this as sub's matte Vanishing spray
which no before you
ask will not make your computer
disappear but what it will do is help
out the scan by covering your object in
an 8 to 15 micrometer layer of matte
material that can even be in different
colors and will sublimate away or change
from a solid to a gas after just a few
hours now that our computer is no longer
reflective or refractive we're good to
take a short break and tell you about
our sponsor AC chonis their Business
Solution acronis cyber protect delivers
protection against cyber threats along
with a full Suite of backup and Recovery
Solutions check it out at the link in
the description and unify your
business's data protection and cyber
security under one platform
[Music]
we did a full short circuit video on the
in scan where you guys can see the whole
process but in a nutshell it's basically
Star Trek and then you export the rough
model from their software for a bit of
clean up in blender or the modeling
software of your choice that's it even
before cleanup actually unless you're
doing something more elaborate it is
more than usable for some quick quick
simple tubing runs at this point all
we've got to do then is model our tubes
from one fitting to the next using
Fusion 360 which by the way has a hobby
license that is free and then hit the
print button right well not quite part
of the point of this project was that we
didn't want to bring out the saws and
pipe cutters heat guns torches and
deburring tools so one final step that
we're going to add to the modeling
process is to add our own chamford Edge
to the end of every tube so that it can
slide right into our compression
fittings now we print and while you wait
you can head over to LTD store.com to
check out our new Labs phase shirts and
sweaters for our tubing we started by
testing the most common 3D printing
material pla on ausa markv I mean in
theory it should work and you can't beat
the ease of use but as it turns out
people don't do this for a reason the
glass transition temperature of pla is
around 60° C and our water shouldn't
ever get that high but in the event of a
pump or a fan failure it could happen
which would cause our tubing to soften
and deform turning a bad situation into
an absolute
catastrophe now we could switch to petg
which is the same material used by many
Hardline tubing suppliers but solving
the material issue still doesn't solve
the paracity issue this style of layered
deposition means that there are teeny
tiny gaps between the layers that
prevent our system from being completely
watertight now we could fix it if we
really wanted to by smearing epoxy along
the entire length of the tube but I mean
come on that's a pretty goofy solution
when we can do this
instead man these are cool do I get any
credit for this being my idea to try no
Justin said yes this was my idea what
the resin well just 3D printing in
general I suggested the resin printer
fine fine whoever's idea it was or
wasn't this is so freaking cool some of
these are really clean like look at this
Bend yeah it's like perfect right it's
it's almost too perfect it's perfect I
mean there are parts that are less
perfect clearly we had to do some
sanding here with a resin goo kind of
dripped but like dude have you ever
tried to Hardline bendit 2 before yeah
could you do this shape oh no oh no no
no no I mean look at this 90° coming out
of one of the fittings you cannot do
that you can do it and then cut down
sure but it still won't be that tight if
you have a clearance issue you cannot
achieve that radius by hand bending now
obviously to get things this exact
you're going to need models of the
fittings that you're going into so that
you can ensure it's going to line up
perfectly but you don't even need to do
that you can do a little bit of trial
and error and you can actually cut or
sand these down to length just like you
would with regular Hardline tubing if
you overdo it SLA printing is super cool
it works by UV hardening resin of that
and one of the biggest advantages aside
from a lack of paracity and a glass
transition temp that's higher than pla
is
customization I mean you could buy resin
in various colors and keep them all in
stock but why do that when you can buy
clear resin and then dye batches
whatever color you want or better yet
use UV reactive dye to make your tubing
glow under a black light SLA printing is
also the secret to being able to achieve
shapes that would be impossible with
traditional manual bending guys I've
done a fair number of Hardline water
cooled systems and even I am not about
to sit here and try and bend my own
shell spiral let's see what our system
looks like with something more like
this oh I love it so much but lonus you
might warn resin is brittle it's going
to crack or even shatter under the
pressure of a custom water cooling Loop
well I mean you're not wrong but you'd
also be surprised by just how strong
this stuff actually is we bought some
monocure 3D tough High tensile strength
resin from spool 3D Canada and it's
worked out pretty great so far and while
we of course aren't going to recommend
that you do this at home because I don't
want to be liable for your RTX 480 or
whatever I'm confident enough to risk my
own RTX 480 and we're going to leave
this computer running for 6 months or
until it leaks with regular updates on
Twitter and flow plane
oh this looks
incredible and best part guys is that it
looks like any other Hardline build
except for people are going to look at
it and go how on Earth did you do that
because these builds are wild I mean
even a skilled Artisan like Charles
Harwood creator of the mbx MK2 murder
box couldn't do something like this
Charles that's not a challenge just sit
down and look I'm not going to sit here
and tell you guys that this Loop has the
best possible flow rate and sure um some
of it looks more like a silly straw or a
water slide than an actual you know
tubing job but the point of the
experiment was to find out where the
limits are and I feel like we're just
scratching the surface I mean okay we
did kind of find some limits um can you
tell me what happened with this yeah I
basically showed up installed a tube it
leaked and delayed the sheet by like a
whole day because all of this was
covered in water so we had a small
pinhole leak but I don't think that that
invalidates the concept especially
because looking at this tube it's not
even immediately obvious where you guys
fixed it what did you even do just put a
little bit of resin on it or glue that's
a really simple fix then yeah okay tell
me this knowing everything you know
about this okay we haven't done the
durability testing yet would you do a
system like this probably not oh I just
hate resin printing everything else is
awesome I just hate the resin it's so
terrible to work with fume oh okay
that's why we have Justin if someone
else could print it for you if you just
used like a 3D printing service sure
yeah this actually pretty
awesome okay Moment of
Truth that's pretty fun watching that is
so cool it's the impossibility of it
like yeah you could maybe create a
custom mold for something like this but
it would be specific to that model of PC
it that particular case and damn near
impossible to injection mold but with
the beauty of additive manufacturer look
at it
go to be clear even 3D printing this
there could be some trickiness you'll
have to play around with supports you
might have to do some finishing to get
it to look a little bit nicer but the
sky is the
limit we went with 10/12 mm tubing but
you could do bigger tubes smaller tubes
and this is kind of cool okay you've
played with solid Works flow simulation
yeah would anything prevent you from
like
okay this is so close to being a signed
to you already and I haven't even talked
to you about it yet would anything would
anything prevent you from creating a an
open loop so you actually have like a a
water slide that you like create laminer
flow and like blast the water over to a
receptacle and like a waterfall can we
do the loop such that we're cooling the
GPU and the CPU has an NHD and it
waterfalls over it I mean can
we yeah okay no promises though I think
the best part of this though is that
while we did use a 3D scanner you don't
have to you can totally do the work the
traditional way by just measuring out
your runs and then modeling accordingly
and if you think about it even the 3D
printer is kind of optional right like
we've got an eligo Saturn 4 ultra which
retails for around $400 but there are
online services that that will print
things for you as long as you find
something with a good amount of vertical
print height for your lengthier tubes or
a wide printing bed just make sure that
you're using something that's precise
enough that your tolerances aren't going
to cause leaks at your fittings so an
eligo Mars 4 or better is what we would
recommend without breaking the bank this
limits us to either smaller form factor
machines though or a lot of money spent
on interconnecting fittings for
extensions as for the resin itself the
price does vary quite a bit but we can
get a liter of the same stuff that we
used for about $80 which will create
quite a lot of tubing for example our
proof of concept here took only 87.4 Ms
out of our 1 L jug which is about $8 now
realistically I don't see that many
folks putting this into action um
outside of maybe Niche small form factor
Builders but just like everything in 3D
printing as the quality goes up and as
the costs come down I could conceivably
see a small to midsize system integrator
shipping hardlines systems at a super
low cost because most of the cost of a
Hardline system is not in the tubes it's
in the labor all the measuring and all
the cutting and bending and installing
or I could even see home users sharing
models with each other so that Hardline
tubing could become as simple as copying
your buddy's case selection and building
list and measurements and then just
printing out the same set of tubes
throwing them in and calling it a day if
you do want to get your own SL printer
by the way just make sure you take the
proper safety precautions resin is hella
toxic like gaming subreddit toxic so you
want to avoid that but don't avoid our
sponsor charge their ice mag isn't just
any regular old power bank it's the
world's first magnetic power bank with
active cooling built right in that's
right it not only runs cool but it also
looks cool thanks to a transparent
window and full spectrum Dynamic RGB
lighting supported is 7.5 wat Max
wireless charging with mag safe andq
compatibility with wirefree use or you
can plug in a USBC cable and reach up to
20 watts of charging power for a quick
Boost Plus it features a unique low
current mode for efficient charging
without draining the bag it's even
Airline safe making it a fantastic
travel companion for your adventures
check out the charge ice mag magnetic
power bank at the link in the
description man what on Earth are we
going to think of next if you guys liked
this video make sure you check out whole
room water cooling maybe next time we do
it we will 3D print
everything God what a time to be alive
look at this tube it works